In the earlier lectures in this section, you've learned about smog and S&P, which are both used for
logging, and you've also heard about steam systems and Annemasse systems as well, and you're probably
thinking, well, aren't these things all doing the same thing?
Do I have to choose one or the other or what do I do?
So I'm going to clear it up for you in this lecture.
First up, can comparing just log and S&P and bulls just log in S&P provide logging functionality?
Such log can often provide more granular detail than S&P can, but it has support only for the device
pushing information out to a small server.
It doesn't support a server pooling or sending information onto the device like you can do with S&P.
So it's just log a bit more granularity on the amount of reporting it can do.
But S&P has got a bit more functionality there.
So do you have to choose one or the other?
Well, no.
Annemasse servers will typically support both search log and as an amp, you see the diagram of gawped
on the slide here.
But from the Kiwi website, which was the software I was using for the demo earlier, and you see that
the Kiwi server, its market, it is a system of server based support AMP as well.
It also supports other types of events coming in, for example, from the windows of log and Mrs. Typical
and NMM system will usually support getting information from multiple sources, both just LOG and S&P
and other sources as well, including net flow from Cisco routers.
So you don't have to choose one or the other.
You can run Bov and you can use them where they fit based.
Next thing is Annemasse on scene, because we talked about both of those earlier as well, the Annemasse
is your network management system.
The scheme is your security information and event manager.
And just like there's overlap with just LOG and S&P, which are the protocols that are used, there's
also overlap between Annemasse and steam systems, which are the servers that are used to monitor all
this information.
So with animation seem can gobber logging information from network infrastructure devices such as urse
switches on firewalls, also from other devices as well like servers, and that uses protocols like
search log, S&P and net flow is commonly used to say, networking information from subscribers.
So what's the difference between Annemasse and Seamer Booth gathering that information?
Well, a product which is marketed as an Annemasse, which is a network management system, will have
a focus on cleaning network information and it will provide nice reports in a nice Jewish.
You can see what's going on with your network.
It will provide early warning of any problems and easier troubleshooting of those problems as well.
A product which is marketed as a scheme as a security manager will have a focus on cleaning security
information, and it will provide reports which focus on that and early warning of any security incidents
and easier troubleshooting of them so they can both gather the same kind of information.
But they've got a different focus on how they're going to report it and the tools that you can use to
manage it.
So let's have a look at an example without looking at Annemasse system here.
This is from Zulma.
Winds here at a very popular speed and smash.
And you can see here, it's got nice guey.
You can get nice graphical reports.
And over on the right, you can see the kind of information is being highlighted, interfaces with high
percent utilization.
So if you've got interfaces that are getting congested, it's going to tell you about that.
So you can fix it by putting more bandwidth in there or maybe by configuring kulash quality of service
that we're going to cover later on.
Down at the bottom, it's reporting on interfaces with high EDR and discard rates.
So it's giving you a nice dashboard where you can see everything that's going on in your network.
And it's also highlighting any potential network problems.
If we look at Aoshima, on the other hand, this is from inforce, right?
It can get the same kind of information.
But you see the is focusing on different types of reports.
It's telling us with top 10 event categories.
So we can see that the most common fault we have is authentication, meaning people are putting in the
wrong password.
What's normal for that to be high?
Because people do sometimes put in wrong password.
But if you see that that is unusually high and there's been a jump in it, that could indicate that
an attacker is trying to break into your systems by getting your passwords for everything we can see.
The next most common thing is malware attacks against us.
Another we can see other exploits in there as well.
Other kind of information we can see which are the most common attacks that are being launched against
this also, which hosts have been receiving multiple events.
So if we prosecute engineer, we're going to come in in the morning.
We're going to look at this dashboard.
And maybe one of the first things we'll do is we'll go and investigate these hosts to see if there's
anything bad happening with them.
OK, so that's a difference between anonymous and a scheme.